---
title: "Nabbing an Internship at Mozilla"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2011-11-09
id: moz-intern
tags: life

image:
    url: http://news.cnet.com/i/tim/2011/01/17/logo-only_270x270.png
    where: right
---

Only two weeks ago, I was at [Beaver
Barcamp](http://ngokevin.com/blog/recap:-beaver-bar-camp-8/index.html) talking
to a recruiter about applying for an internship at open source giant,
[Mozilla](http://mozilla.org). I figured I had a bit of a chance of getting
accepted so what the hell, I went for it. I quickly whipped up a resume on the
spot, said I was interested in web development and security, had a chat, and
then I went on my merry way.

---

If I were to go into web development, I had to learn some Javascript so I spent
the weekend working on the [OSULUG website](http://lug.oregonstate.edu),
revamping it with some jQuery. I then sent in my resume again via email and got
was shortly scheduled an interview the following day. The interview was in a
few days so I decided to crack out on some web development material, namely
Javascript and web security and scalability. I went into Mozilla mode and
diverted a good portion of my attention away from school.

I had my first phone screen with web-dev at Mozilla working on
[SUMO](http://support.mozilla.org). The interview itself went largely well,
except I was at work at the time and couldn't really find a quiet spot.
I initially sat in front of an elevator on a high floor, but got kicked out
by a receptionist. I talked about my projects and asked about their workflow
which was somewhat familiar (branch, review, stage, deploy). He was really nice
and thankfully asked questions that I could answer. Soon after the interview, I
found out I got made it through and had two more scheduled for the next
week...on the same day.

This gave me time to tend to my [DDoSed
Webserver](http://ngokevin.com/blog/web-server-back-up/index.html) and get my
website set back up again. I spent a large part of the weekend rebuilding my
website using [Wok](http://github.com/mythmon/wok) rather than Django as I had
no need for a nonstatic website and didn't have time to roll my own CMS.

My second interview was on a Monday noon with another web-dev who manages
[SuMo](http://support.mozilla.com). I wasn't quite awake all the way, got a bit
nervous during the call, and was talking a bit fast throwing in some "uhm"s a
bit too often. At least this time, I was in a nice quiet spot in my aparmtent,
though it may have been too quiet.  After a bit I slowed myself down and
answered questions about web scalability and security. After the interview I
headed out to work.

My last interview was several hours later with the director of web development
(who actually used to work at OSU). I got home to my apartment, but there wasn't
a private place to hold a phone conversation...so I had the bright idea to do
it in my car in the parking lot. So I sat in my car around the time of the
interview. I sat there for about fifteen minutes staring at my phone until the
call came. This time the conversation was less of an interview and more of a
chat. I told him what kind of projects I would be interested in (more frontend
stuff since I suck at that) and learned what the internship would be like. By
this time, I was told my chances were looking good as they received a lot of
applications and only talked to a few and that they would take several.

The following day while checking my email as I normally do every few seconds, I
received an offer from Mozilla! I gave fridgei a high-five and obviously
accepted. I would then start the process of dropping out of MECOP. What a
relief, I was not excited to work in Windows, .NET frameworks or QAing home
security lock software.

Today, I received a call from the recruiters who had been helping getting my
availability and scheduling my interviews, about the internship.

- Five months in Mountain View, California

- Free transportation, housing, and laptop

- All of the fun stuff at Mozilla and Mountain View

I'm pretty excited. I'll be surrounded by intelligent people, the work I will
do there would make my current work look trivial, I get to work on a
large-scale open source project, and of course the place is a stone's throw
from the bay. Until then, I'm going to try to get **a lot** better at web
development, specifically Javascript so I adapt in smoothly . Can't wait, and
throughout the whole interview process everyone was really nice. Thanks to
everyone I talked to and Mozilla!
