---
title: "Taking Cold Showers and the Zen State"
type: blog
layout: blog
date: 2012-03-10
id: cold-showers
tags: life

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/NUfgq.jpg
    where: right
---

Over the past month, I have developed a new nightly ritual. Around every
midnight a couple hours before I sleep, I would take an ice cold shower, brush
my teeth, and program to music on my bed in the dark. The coolness of the
shower that becomes like an aura on my skin, the freshness of my breath, the
calming music, the moonlit sky, possibly the sound of raindrops beating like
miniature drums, the inviting warmth of my bed, maybe along with some sleeping
pills places me in the ultimate **Zen** mode for programming.

---

Cold showers sound painful, and for the first few seconds they are. Back when I
was a mere mortal taking regular mind-numbing hot showers, I wouldn't have
thought of taking even a *lukewarm* shower, let alone a chilling one. But back
a month ago when the water heater went out at my apartment, I didn't really
have much of a choice. I grew some balls (which would soon reshrink) and
stepped into Hitler's shower.

It was cold.

Upon entering the shower, I went into "cold shock". I hyperventilated, shivered
uncontrollably, and danced around attempting to produce some heat.

I lasted as long as I could on the first time, about a minute (intended). But
the feeling after finishing was like a rebirth (intended). I had grown a field
of goosebumps, and a relaxing feel of coolness steamed off of me for the next
hour. More importantly, I felt like a **badass**. I went to try again the next
day, although it was not like I had any choice.

The second time, I stayed in the shower longer. After a while, my body started
to produce it's own heat, and the water grew more and more comfortable. I
exerted the same coolness afterwards, as if an icy aura was finding its way
through my skin.

I continued this habit, calling it **"the first battle of the day"**. Every
time before I enter the icebox, I still become a bit anxious, as if I am
standing in line for the park's headlining rollercoaster (or more relevantly,
the Titanic).  The duration of the "cold shock" becomes less and less each day.
And if you Google the health benefits of cold showers, you'd find just about
every health and Yoga benefit in the book (immunity, alertness, detoxification,
relaxation, stress reduction, increased blood circulation, increased
metabolism, etc).

It may sound painful, and it will be for a bit. But I had been taking hot
showers my entire life, and only by coincidence, an event of sheer Fate did I
discover the Zen state offered by cold showers. Though you don't have to wait
around for your water heater to bust, turn the knob all the way to the other
side and give cold showers a try.


