---
title: "One Year Working at NET"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2012-04-20
id: "net"
tags: life

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/NxJhU.jpg
    where: top
---

Since my time at NET has been cut short by a season-ending injury to my car,
I'd write about it so the memories aren't overwritten when I'm down in
California. It's been a year since I started working at OSU's Network
Engineering Team ([NET][net]) as a programmer, and I have few words (mostly
happy swearing) to say how awesome it's been. I'd probably be lying face-down
in in some ditch somewhere had I not been hired. I've met many smart people,
picked up the art of hacking, been within three feet of Linus Torvalds, and
nabbed an internship at Mozilla. NET is one of the sweetest places to work on
campus, heck I'd might even work for free (don't tell my bosses).

## What is NET?

NET "provides data hosting, networking, phone services, and conferencing
solutions for the OSU community". Basically, NET keeps OSU's network beating.
Every time there's slow Internet, NET lubes it up. And every time there's
outage or attack, NET is on the scene. Without NET, students would not be able
to log onto Facebook. Oh, the tragedy. NET runs about three data centers on
campus, two of which are in Kerr, with another data center on the way (plopping
it right on top of some farmland).

I heard about the opening at NET from [uberj](uberj) who had already been
working there. I told him, "I'm a pleb! I need to find a job and become
awesome". Funny thing, uberj was my TA for a freshman CS course that I was taking
during my second year.  We were in the same classes and that I was browsing a
certain social news website. Lucky, had I taken that course as a freshman like
everyone else, tested out of it, or had I not been browsing Reddit, I'd be
probably be in that ditch I mentioned earlier.  Or maybe perhaps I would have
won the lottery.

## Interview and Offer

I was interviewed by three people, two bouses and a student.  At that point, I
hadn't realized that it was actually a programming job. Unfortunately, I acted
as if I was interviewing for a helpdesk job. The best things I had programmed
at the time were a lame network chat client, lame network tic-tac-toe game, a
lame (and broken) DNS client, and some programming challenges. All I knew was C
and Java, and their language was Python. I could program, but not towards
anything practically useful (thanks OSU for teaching me how to draw smiley
faces in Java). Though I wanted to learn, and I had a black belt in Google-Fu
(yeah, that was on my resume). Apparently, that was enough.

Surprisingly, I found out I got the job via email one day while I was lounging
around during spring break. I had been trying to step my game up and was in the
middle of programming a heads-up poker system in Java (my secret first GitHub
project). I dropped that pretty quickly. I look back at this job offer along
with my Ford Family Foundation scholarship and upcoming Mozilla internship, and
I think how extremely lucky to float life like this.

## First Days

It was that sunny time of year fitting for shorts and polos. I buzzed into the
loud humming of the data center, and walked into a small quieter room within
the data center to meet my co-workers. Four people sat in front of long desk
that ran around the edges of the room. It was sort of a really cool
hackerspace. Not sure if I was ready for this. I went to introduce myself to
one of the guys. He stares at me for a bit and turns away. He turns back around
with a small scratch pad, "my name is David, welcome to NET bro!". uberj turns
around and tells me that he's mute. "Oh...nice to meet you", I say sort of
surprisingly. He wasn't mute. All of while this is happening, limed, the boss,
is shaking is head disapprovingly at the massive trolling. It really was
'welcome to NET, bro'.

I did not set too good of an impression showing up very late for work the next
couple of days by oversleeping past noon. New hires are kept on sort of a
tighter leash to...prevent certain repeatings of history.

Now let me do my Charles Dickens impression. Walking through the data center
into the office was nostalgic. The hums and fans of the data center were loud,
but calming like white noise, and it would muffle as I closed the door behind
me into the office. I would buy a breakfast burrito and Arizona iced tea to
start the day at 8am. I'd be the first one in, munching on my burrito and
listening to VLC streaming music from my server in the dorms. Then
[thedjpetersen][thedjpetersen] would walk in later and we'd peacefully code
away.

## Learning Python and Django

The days when I didn't know Python, the concept of a web framework, or even
HTML, those days were the dark ages. I started the lurk-and-learn phase of any
new programming hire. I'd silently read over our codebase, maybe ask the
occasional question. It was a "figure it out yourself, read the docs" kind of
place, easily enough that's what I had always done. I read over [Learn Python
the Hard Way][learnpython], [Dive Into Python][dive], The Definitive Guide to
Django, and watched the [Google Python Classes][pygoog]. There weren't any
projects for me to do yet, so I just used my downtime wisely.

thedjpetersen, who sat next to me, was working on a Django web application for
managing DMCA takedown notifications. This would later become my adopted child,
named **Banhammer**. Banhammer was only the frontend, the backend was a suite
of scripts which we named **Supergruntmaster9000** after a Dilbert strip. I
would also later help in raising this child as well. One day, he gave me a
small checklist of things that needed to be done for the site, to keep me busy.
They were to make form fields persist after submitting, adding a field to a
form, and humanizing a form field. Now I had never done anything on the web
besides make stuff blink nor had I imagined I would ever become entangled in
the web (see what I did there?).

Well after a day or two, I actually finished these tasks, to my own awe. It
required some minimal understanding of MVC frameworks and Django templates, but
damn was I proud. After that, I fixed the search functions by hacking on
[Haystack][haystack] for a while, which felt monumental. From there, I just did
more and more stuff, absorbing knowledge from thedjpetersen through osmosis. I
continued to help build the web application (which would become quite a
long-term thing with a larger scope). I adopted a set of Python scripts that,
given search parameters, parsed massive network logs to track down hosts and
did some hacking on that.

## The Lonely Summer

Then as summer rolled around, everyone vanished. Everyone either graduated
or got internships and jobs somewhere else. After about two months, I became
the senior (and only) student manning the battle-stations. To keep myself from
becoming lonely and from growing insane, I constructed cardboard/whiteboard
versions of all of my former coworkers to converse with. We had some good
times, right, guys? Right...? Okay, they were a bit quiet and stiff, but at
least I had the OSL developers to talk to. Right, guys? Right...? :(

Well, at least I became so focused, I was practically vomiting code. I passed
all previous NET students in number of commits in about four months (I am
Commit King). I refactored and revamped all of the code to shiny new heights,
added features like a boss, and tore down tickets like a madman. I started my
own project, MongoDB network log dumping and searching with a Django web
application which I worked on for a couple of months and is just now seeing
the light of day. I named it netshed.

It was a fun and sunny summer filled with Steam games, coding, going to the
gym, and LinuxCon. The college town of Corvallis, usually swarmed by students,
was not swarmed by students. uberj soon came back to NET, and fall term was
rollin' round. There were now only two NET students, what used to be five. We
needed some more firepower.

## Being the Hirer and the Hiree

We spent several weeks racking a stack of resumes for new student hires, and
then the interview gauntlet began. Over the course of a few days, we
interviewed about 7-8 students. I even had to awkwardly interview the person
who I had previously got the job over. Now, that doesn't happen everyday. We
picked up fridgei, who I had met on IRC where we talked about coding and poker
and a murrown, a robotics guy with some sought-after skills in Python. I
previously went more in-depth on what it's like to
[interview](/blog/interviewing) others in my position as a student.

Around the same time, I myself was being interviewed by Mozilla, going through
a [series of three interviews](/blog/20111109-mozilla/). Talk about being
on both sides of the table.

## Cyder, the Future

I haven't talked about this much, mostly because I try to actively repress it
(with some help of medication), but I worked on a PHP web application called
Maintain. I said PHP so you might know where this is going. Maintain is used on
OSU to register hosts and devices onto the network and manage DNS and DHCP. It
was written almost ten years ago in a homegrown PHP "framework". The code is
actually almost as ugly as the frontend which consists of tables all the way
down, strewn in obnoxious shades of black and orange. Now, to be fair, this
was ten years ago when the concept of a web framework was new and the Internet
was a wild west. To be even more fair, it works very well (though it has some
inherent flaws in its schema for DNS). It has the right idea with managing DNS
through a web application in front of a database that pushes out to a
nameserver. But it's aging, and not like wine.

We talked to OSU Central Web Services, a Rails shop, to perhaps contract them
to build it. They went through some meetings. In the end, our budget and their
availability became an issue. So why not save $500,000 and have us students
build it. We have the skills, we have the technology, and we're relatively
dirt-cheap.

uberj began to plan out the schema, set up the models, wrote many tests while I
focused more on school. We named it [cyder][cyder], a play on CIDR and a
following of the recent trend of naming web applications after alcoholic drinks
here. It was a bit rough getting each other into each other's workflows. I had
worked at NET for almost year, but we actually never really worked together.
But thanks to Git branches and with him doing mostly backend and me doing more
frontend, we got into the flow. And to this date, we're still working on it.
We've had a whole month of downtime, waiting to move to California, so Cyder
has become a full-time thing. What's cool is we could probably make it our
senior engineering project. I will talk more about the project in later blog
post about Django class-based generic views and Jinja2 template inheritance.

Thanks to limed, peterkir, chapmant, uberj for getting me into NET and thanks
to thedjpetersen for teaching me stuff. And thanks to fridgei and murrown for
adopting my babies, netshed and banhammer, they have found good homes. Woop
woop.

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/fQNUQ.gif"></img>

[net]:http://oregonstate.edu/net
[uberj]:http://uberj.com
[thedjpetersen]:http://thedjpetersen.github.com
[dive]:http://diveintopython.net
[pygoog]:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tKTZoB2Vjuk
[learnpython]:http://learnpythonthehardway.org
[haystack]:http://haystacksearch.org
[cyder]:http://github.com/uberj/cyder/

